Vecs blog post (#14698)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2023-05-31-vecs.mdx

---
title: 'Vecs: Vector Client'
description: Introducing Supabase Vecs, pgvector client
author: oli_rice
image: 
thumb: 
tags:
  - postgres
  - AI
  - python
date: '2023-05-29'
toc_depth: 3
---

[Vecs](https://github.com/supabase/vecs) is a newly released Python library for storing embeddings in your Postgres database with the pgvector extension.

It handles:
- Creating and indexing tables
- Querying vectors by cosine distance, l2 distance, and max inner dot product
- Filtering based on user-defined metadata

## Goals

Our goal for `vecs` is to provide an interface that lets Postgres + pgvector look and feel like a dedicated vector store.
It was designed with ease-of-use, interactivity, and exploratory data analysis in mind, but works equally well as a search workhorse.

> If you're interestd in the nuts and bolts of what's going on, its trivial to drop into the SQL layer and see whats happening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in the nuts and bolts of what's going on, it's trivial to drop into the SQL layer and see what's happening.
```

> Alternatively, folks who don't want to know whats happening in the database, don't need to care.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, folks who don't want to know what's happening in the database, don't need to care.
```

## Usage

> `Vecs` gets you started shockingly fast with creating a collection (table) and inserting a few records in just 5 lines of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Vecs` makes it easy to create a collection (table) and insert a few records - just 5 lines of code.
```

### Connecting

```python
import vecs

DB_CONNECTION = "postgresql://<user>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<db_name>"

# create vector store client
vx = vecs.create_client(DB_CONNECTION)

# create a collection of vectors with 3 dimensions
docs = vx.create_collection(name="docs", dimension=3)
```

The `create_collection` call sets up a table in the Postgres database specified by `DB_CONNECTION` in a schema named `vecs` with the user defined name `docs`.

Or, more specifically:

```sql
create table vecs.docs (
    id text primary key,
    vec vector(3) not null,
    metadata jsonb not null default '{}'::jsonb,
);
```

### Insert/Update

We can insert a few records in that new SQL table/vecs collection using `Collection.upsert`.

```python
# add records to the collection
docs.upsert(
    vectors=[
        (
          "vec0",           # the records user defined identifier
          [0.1, 0.2, 0.3],  # the vector. A list or np.array
          {"year": 1973}    # associated metadata
        )
    ]
)
```

which will add the records to our table if the `id` `"vec0"` does not exist, or updates the existing record if it does exist.

### Query

> You can query a vecs collection at any time without an index, but its a best practices to create an index on your collection after inserting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query a vecs collection at any time without an index, but it's a best practices to create an index on your collection after inserting
```

data.

```python
docs.index()
```

Where `index` optionally takes an argument for the distance measure to index.

> Finally, we can search the collection for similar vectors using the `query` method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we can search the collection for similar vectors using the `query` method:
```

```python
docs.query(
    query_vector=[0.10,0.21,0.29],   # required
    limit=1,                         # (optional) number of records to return
    filters={"year": {"$eq": 1973}}, # (optional) metadata filters
    measure="cosine_distance",       # (optional) distance measure to use
    include_value=False,             # (optional) should distance measure values be returned?
    include_metadata=False,          # (optional) should record metadata be returned?
)
```

> Which returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which returns:
```

```python
[("vec1", 0.000697, {"year": 1973})]
```

Since all metadata is stored in a `jsonb` column, there's a [lightweight but flexible DSL](https://supabase.github.io/vecs/concepts_metadata/) wrapped around it for filtering.

> When you're done, disconnect with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're done, disconnect with:
```

---
title: 'Supabase Vecs: a vector client for Postgres'
description: Introducing Supabase Vecs, a PostgreSQL vector client
author: oli_rice
image: 2023-06-01-vecs/og-image.jpg
thumb: 2023-06-01-vecs/og-image.jpg
tags:
  - postgres
  - AI
  - python
date: '2023-05-29'
toc_depth: 3
---

[Vecs](https://github.com/supabase/vecs) is a newly released Python library for storing embeddings in your Postgres database with the pgvector extension.

It handles:

- Creating and indexing tables
- Querying vectors by cosine distance, l2 distance, and max inner dot product
- Filtering based on user-defined metadata

## Goals

> Our goal for `vecs` is to provide an interface that lets Postgres + pgvector look and feel like a dedicated vector store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our goal for `vecs` is to provide an interface that lets Postgres + pgvector look and feel like a dedicated vector store. It works with any Postgres database (or platform) that [supports pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector/issues/54).
```

storage and querying, it's becoming clear that text and image vectorization make up +95% of usage. That gives us the opportunity to
streamline those workflows for users.

One option we're exploring is to optionally assign transformation pipelines to collections along the lines of:

```python
# This is mock code only, not currently functional

docs: Collection =vx.create_collection(
    docs='docs',
    dimension=512,
    transform = TextPreprocessor(  # this is new
        model="sentence-transformers/all-Mini-L6-v2"
    )
)

docs.upsert([
    ("id_0", "# Some markdown", {}),
    ("id_1", "# Some more markdown", {})
])
```

so users can choose to work with their preferred media type without ever thinking about vectors.

Another direction we're considering is adding an async client to avoid blocking when waiting on the database or network i.e.

```python
# This is mock code only, not currently functional

await docs.upsert([
    ("id_0", [0.1, 0.2, 0.3], {}),
])
```

Both possibilities are still up for debate. If you have view on either, feel free to weigh in on the
[Feature Request: Preprocessing Transform](https://github.com/supabase/vecs/issues/5)

> and [Feature Request: Async Client](https://github.com/supabase/vecs/issues/6) GitHub issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and [Feature Request: Async Client](https://github.com/supabase/vecs/issues/6) GitHub issues.

## More info

- Source code: [github.com/supabase/vecs](https://github.com/supabase/vecs)
- Vecs Docs: [supabase.github.io/vecs/](https://supabase.github.io/vecs/)
- Supabase Vector Toolkit: [supabase.com/docs/guides/ai](/docs/guides/ai)

```
